#=======================================================================
#    ____  ____  _____              _    ____ ___   ____
#   |  _ \|  _ \|  ___|  _   _     / \  |  _ \_ _| |___ \
#   | |_) | | | | |_    (_) (_)   / _ \ | |_) | |    __) |
#   |  __/| |_| |  _|    _   _   / ___ \|  __/| |   / __/
#   |_|   |____/|_|     (_) (_) /_/   \_\_|  |___| |_____|
#
#   A Perl Module Chain to faciliate the Creation and Modification
#   of High-Quality "Portable Document Format (PDF)" Files.
#
#   Copyright 1999-2005 Alfred Reibenschuh <areibens@cpan.org>.
#
#=======================================================================
#
#   PERMISSION TO USE, COPY, MODIFY, AND DISTRIBUTE THIS FILE FOR
#   ANY PURPOSE WITHOUT FEE IS HEREBY GRANTED, PROVIDED THAT THE ABOVE 
#   COPYRIGHT NOTICE AND THIS PERMISSION NOTICE APPEAR IN ALL COPIES.
#
#   THIS FILE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS´´ AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
#   WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
#   MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
#   IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND THEIR
#   CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
#   SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
#   LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
#   USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
#   ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
#   OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
#   OF THE USE OF THIS FILE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
#   SUCH DAMAGE.
#
#   $Id$
#
#=======================================================================

=head1 NAME

PDF::API2::HOWTO - A basic set of guidelines to use PDF::API2.

=head1 THEORY

=head2 Coordinates and Units

=head3 Transformations

=head2 Colors

=head3 R-G-B

=head3 C-M-Y-K

=head3 H-S-V

=head1 THE BASIC DOCUMENT

=head2 A Hello World.

    $pdf = PDF::API2->new;
    #
    $fnt = $pdf->corefont('Helvetica-Bold');
    #
    $page = $pdf->page;
    $page->mediabox('A4');
    #
    $gfx = $page->gfx;
    $gfx->textlabel(200,700,$fnt,20,'Hello World !');
    #
    $pdf->saveas('/this/new/document.pdf');
    $pdf->end;

=head1 FONTS AND TYPESETTING

=head1 INTEROPERABLILITIES


=head2 Adobe Reader & Acrobat (Windows)

The Acrobat/Adobe Reader will open and print files created with PDF::API2,
but sometimes Acrobat (Full Product) will be unable to edit/update them.

=head3 Adobe Reader (Linux)

Since the MS Core Fonts may not be available via X11, those corefonts may
either look/print odd or may be entirely missing (dependent on installation).


=head2 Macromedia Freehand (Windows)

Any version of Freehand is unable to open files either created or updated by PDF::API2.
Redestilled files do work, but embedded fonts are missing, which is probably bug in
Freehand's pdf engine.


=head2 Ghostscript

Versions before 7.03 had problems reading PDF::API2 created pdfs.

PDF::API2 versions prior to 0.30_7x embedded Type1 Fonts not
digestible by gs.

=head3 Redmon / FreePDF (Windows)

Since these are based on ghostscript, they can be used to redistill 
pdfs from and to PDF::API2.


=head2 Xpdf

Xpdf and tools need to be compiled with both freetype2 and libT1.

pdftops produces problematic ps-files if the pdf-file created via PDF::API2 
contains embedded CFF (aka. Opentype) fonts.


=head2 pdftk

pdftk is a nice tool to pre/post-process pdf-files. 

Version 0.91 does not support big-endian unicode metadata as
PDF::API2 does use as default.


=head2 Jaws PDF

Some versions of this software (5D PDF Creator) create pdfs not consumable
by PDF::API2 (if you just need a pdf-printer driver use FreePDF).


=head2 Omnipage

PDF::API2 versions prior to 0.40_17 had a bug that screws up omnipages
unfortunate image name-keys and lzw-encoded page descriptions. 


=head2 Open Office

PDF::API2 versions prior to 0.40_xx had a bug that screws up colorspaces 
of indexed images during import/save.

=cut
